      Installing You Don't Know Jack on a WebTV Plus Internet Receiver

Jack Palevich
palevich@corp.webtv.net
(650)614-8441

Version 0.2
Ā
This document is WebTVĀConfidential.

Introduction

This document explains how to install You Don't Know Jack on a WebTV Plus
Internet receiver.

This process is a little complicated. That's because You Don't Know Jack is
not yet deployed on WebTV's service. The final public process will be much
simpler.

What you need:

   * A WebTV Plus Internet receiver. This won't work with a regular WebTV
     Classic Internet receiver. If you are not sure what kind of WebTV you
     have, look on the back. If it has a video in port, it is a WebTV Plus
   * A TV set.
   * A normal phone line. (It's OK if you have to dial '9' first.)
   * About two hours of time. (Fortunately, the box does not have to be
     attended during the download -- you can go and do something else while
     the software downloads.)

Well, it's more complicated that I would like it, but I think if you follow
these directions, you should make it through OK.

What you will do:

  1. Set up your WebTV Plus Internet receiver.
  2. Find out what kind of application ROM it has
  3. Get an Internal 2.1 application ROM:
       1. Connect to the regular WebTV service. (5 minutes)
       2. Log on to the regular service "WebTV Tricks" page. (2 minutes.)
       3. Download an internal 2.1 application ROM. (20 minutes.)
  4. Get an Internal 2.2 application ROM
       1. Connect to the Daily service. (5 minutes)
       2. Log on to the Daily service "WebTV Tricks" page. (2 minutes.)
       3. Download an internal 2.2 application ROM (20 minutes)
  5. Get the game software
       1. Connect to the special Beta WebTV Games service. (5 minutes.)
       2. Subscribe to "You Don't Know Jack" (2 minutes.)
       3. Download the "You Don't Know Jack" software. (60 minutes).

         For WebTV Employees: If your WebTV Plus is already
         connected to the Daily service, you can start at step 4.
         If you already have an internal application ROM, you can
         start at step 5.

Step 1: Setting up your WebTV Plus Internet receiver

Read the manual that came with your WebTV Plus Internet receiver to learn
how to set it up. It's a lot like a VCR -- except that it also has to hook
into the phone line.

Step 2: Identifying the currently installed application ROM

The first step is to identify what kind of application ROM you currently
have installed in your WebTV Plus box. This is easy to do by using the 411
secret code:

  1. Power off the WebTV Box.
  2. Wait for the disk to quiet down. (That is, for the disk head to stop
     seeking.) It is OK for the disk motor to still be spinning.
  3. Type the secret code 411.
  4. If you typed the code correctly, the boxes lights will flash for a
     brief period of time.
  5. If the box lights didn't flash, press the Option key, and then enter
     the secret code again.
  6. Press the Web power button.

You should see a page titled "WebTV Technical Information". Look at the line
that says "Client:"

                          Here's what that means:
                                     Ā

 Client                                      Meaning
 2.1 (Version 3063)Ā or any number less than
 3063                                        Production 2.1 application ROM
 2.1 (Internal, non-debug) (build 3063)
 (Version 3063)                              Internal 2.1 application ROM
 2.2 Internal (Build 3356) or any number
 greater than 3356                           Internal 2.2 application ROM

In order to play "You Don't Know Jack", you must have an Internal 2.2
application ROM. In order to get that, you have to have an internal 2.1 ROM.
So, if you currently have a production 2.1 application ROM, you'll have to
first get the

Step 3: Get an Internal 2.1 application ROM

Assuming that you have a regular WebTV Plus ROM, the first step is to get an
internal 2.1 application ROM so that you can connect to

Connecting to the regular WebTV service

When you first turn on the WebTV box it will connect to the WebTV service.

If the WebTV box has trouble connecting, check if you need to dial "9" to
get to an outside line. If you do, then you will have to use the "Basic"
phone settings to configure this feature.

Once you have connected to WebTV, you will be presented with a short
tutorial on how to use the remote control.

After the tutorial, you will be asked to sign up for the service. There are
several options, but basically you have to pay $20 per month.

Once you have gone through the sign-up process, you will arrive at the "Web
Home Page".
Ā

Logging on to the WebTV Tricks page

Once you have connected to the WebTV service, the next step is to log onto
the WebTV Tricks page. This is a special page that is used by WebTV and its
business partners.

Do the following to log on to the WebTV Tricks page:

  1. Go to the Web Home page on the service.
  2. Press the GoTo button, which is located in the upper right-hand corner
     of the WebTV keyboard.
  3. A "Address:" dialog box will pop up. If it doesn't, make sure that
     you're on the Web Home page, not the TV Home page.
  4. Type backspace several times, to erase the "http://" that's already
     typed into the box for you.
  5. Type: wtv-tricks:tricks
  6. Press "Return".
  7. You will see a page asking for a password.
       1. In order to access WebTV Tricks you need a password.
       2. The password changes occasionally.
       3. If you are a Bezerk or Jellyvision employee, call Jack Palevich
          (650)614-8441 to get the current password.
       4. Do not give out the password to anyone.
  8. Typing the correct password will take you to a page that has a number
     of links.

Downloading an internal 2.1 application ROM

Now that you are logged on to the WebTV Tricks page, you can download an
internal application ROM. An internal application ROM is required for two
reasons:

  1. It has the ability to launch client-side games, such as You Don't Know
     Jack.
  2. It has the ability to connect to beta servers, such as the Beta Games
     server.

To download an internal application ROM, do the following:

  1. Choose the link "Visit Big Willie's". Hit Enter to go to "Big Willie's
     Flash ROM Download Center".
  2. Choose the link "2.1 Internal, nondebug, app ROM needs boot 2039 (build
     3063)".
  3. Wait about 15 minutes. for the page to download.
  4. You will see an "Updating complete" page.
  5.
     Press the Web Power button to turn off the WebTV Plus.

Step 4: Getting an Internal 2.2 application ROM

 The next step is to use the internal 2.1 application ROM to connect to the
   "Daily" WebTV service. The Daily WebTV service is where you can get the
                        latest 2.2 application ROMs.
                                     Ā

                  Plan on updating your 2.2 application
                  ROM at least once a week during the
                  beta cycle.

Ā

Connecting to the Daily WebTV service

Once you have downloaded an internal 2.1 application ROM, you can configure
your box to connect to the Daily WebTV service. This is an internal service
that is used to test new software. You need to connect to it in order to
download the games approm. You do this as follows:

  1. Make sure the box is turned off, but still connected to the power.
  2. While the box is turned off, type the following "secret code" on the
     keyboard: 93288
  3. If you did that right, the 3 LEDs will flash briefly. If the LEDs did
     not flash, press the "Option" key, and then try again.
  4. Once you have entered the secret code correctly, turn on the box by
     pressing the "Web Power" button on the keyboard.
  5. Instead of the normal "TV Home" page, you will see a "Connection
     Configuration" page.
       1. The defaults are correct for what we want to do. Don't change any
          of the values.
       2. Select the "Connect" button and press "Return".
  6. Wait for a connection to the Daily WebTV service.

Once you have connected to the Daily service, you will be asked to sign up
for the service again. Type in "auto" for your first name to skip the
sign-up process. You will receive a made-up name and address. You won't be
billed for this second account. By the way, the "auto" short-cut is only
available because you're running an internal application ROM and connected
to an internal service.

Logging on to the WebTV Tricks page

Once you have connected to the Daily WebTV service, the next step is to log
onto the Daily WebTV Tricks page. This is a special page that is used by
WebTV and its business partners.

Do the following to log on to the Daily WebTV Tricks page:

  1. Go to the Web Home page on the service.
  2. Press the GoTo button, which is located in the upper right-hand corner
     of the WebTV keyboard.
  3. A "Address:" dialog box will pop up. If it doesn't, make sure that
     you're on the Web Home page, not the TV Home page.
  4. Type backspace several times, to erase the "http://" that's already
     typed into the box for you.
  5. Type: wtv-tricks:tricks
  6. Press "Return".
  7. You will see a page asking for a password.
       1. In order to access WebTV Tricks you need a password.
       2. The password changes occasionally.
       3. If you are a Bezerk or Jellyvision employee, call Jack Palevich
          (650)614-8441 to get the current password.
       4. Do not give out the password to anyone.
  8. Typing the correct password will take you to a page that has a number
     of links.

Downloading an internal 2.2 application ROM

Now that you are logged on to the Daily Service's WebTV Tricks page, you can
download an internal 2.2 application ROM. An internal 2.2 application ROM is
required for two reasons:

  1. It has the ability to launch client-side games, such as You Don't Know
     Jack.
  2. It has the ability to connect to internal servers, such as the Beta
     Games server.

To download an internal 2.2 application ROM, do the following:

  1. Choose the link "Visit Big Willie's". Hit Enter to go to "Big Willie's
     Flash ROM Download Center".
  2. Choose the pop-up menu "2.2 English (US) Builds..."
  3. Choose the largest, top-most number. It should be 3355 or greater.
  4. Choose the link "nondebug", in the "DAILY" row.
  5. Wait about 15 minutes for the download to complete.
  6. You will see a page titled "Updating complete".
  7. Power off the WebTV box.

Step 5: Getting the Game Software

Now that we have an internal 2.2 application ROM, we can finally download
and play the games. But, we need to connect to yet another service.

Connecting to the Beta WebTV Games service

Once you have downloaded an internal 2.2 application ROM, you can configure
your box to connect to the Beta WebTV Games Service. You do this as follows:

  1. Make sure the box is turned off, but still connected to the power.
  2. While the box is turned off, type the following "secret code" on the
     keyboard: 93288
  3. If you did that right, the 3 LEDs will flash briefly. If the LEDs did
     not flash, press the "Option" key, and then try again.
       1. If it just doesn't seem to work, you may not have an internal ROM.
          Try downloading an internal ROM again.
  4. Once you have entered the secret code correctly, turn on the box by
     pressing the "Web Power" button on the keyboard.
  5. Instead of the normal "TV Home" page, you will see a "Connection Setup"
     page.
       1. Choose the radio button "Custom:".
       2. Enter the Address: 172.17.64.127
       3. Enter the port address 24315
       4. Select the "Connect" button and press "Return".
  6. Wait for a connection to the Beta WebTV Games service.
       1. If you can't get connected, call Jack to make sure that the Beta
          Games service is running OK.

Once you have connected to the Beta WebTV Games service, you will be asked
to sign up for the service again. Type in "auto" for your first name to skip
the sign-up process. You will receive a made-up name and address. You won't
be billed for this third account. By the way, the "auto" short-cut is only
available because you're connected to an internal service.

Once the sign-up process is complete you will be sent to the Web Home Page
of the Beta WebTV Games service.

In the future, each time you connect to the web you will be connected to the
Beta WebTV Games service.

Subscribing to You Don't Know Jack

Once you are connected to the Web Home Page of the Beta WebTV Games service,
you can subscribe to You Don't Know Jack.

To subscribe, follow these steps:

  1. Click on the "Using WebTV" link that's located on the left-hand-side of
     the home page.
  2. Click on the "Customize WebTV" link that's located 1/2 way down the
     right-hand side of the Setup page.
  3. Click on the "Games" link located half way down the right-hand column.
       1. If you don't see a Games link, you are not connected to the Beta
          Games WebTV Service. Go to the "Connecting to the Beta Games WebTV
          Service" section.
  4. Click on the "Enable Games" radio button.
  5. Click on "Continue"
  6. Enable the "You Don't Know Jack" checkbox.
  7. If you want, you can click on the other game checkboxes too. You can
     also return to this page later to add or remove games.
  8. Click on "Continue"
  9. Make sure that "Auto update" is enabled. (It should be, by default.)
 10. Click on "Continue".
 11. Retrieving Files. Wait about an hour to download the game software.

It takes quite a while to download You Don't Know Jack. The exact time
depends upon which software is already on your box. If you already have all
the software on your box, it will take as little as 20 seconds to verify
that everything's OK. If you have nothing on your box yet, it might take as
much as an hour and a half.

Once the software has been downloaded, you will see a status page that
explains whether the process succeeded or failed.

   * If you failed, press the "Home" key to return to the Web Home Page and
     try subscribing to "You Don't Know Jack" again.
   * If you succeeded, press Continue to go to the games page.
   * Once you are on the games page, power off the WebTV Plus Box.

                                     Ā

                  Warning: Some users are experiencing
                  difficulty installing YDKJ. If you
                  experience trouble, please let me know.

Ā

Playing You Don'tĀ Know Jack

Once you've subscribed to games and downloaded the You Don't Know Jack
software, a Games link will appear on the TV Home Page.Ā The Games link is
located to the left of the TV window. If you don't see a Games link, go to
the section "Subscribing to You Don't Know Jack".

Select the Games link and press return to go to the Games page.

The Games page shows which games you have installed. There should be a "You
Don't Know Jack" link. Select it and press Return to start "You Don't Know
Jack". The screen will go blank for about 20 seconds, and then it will go
white as "You Don't Know Jack" begins.

Quitting You Don't Know Jack

Press the Esc key, and then the Q key, to quit playing "You Don't Know
Jack". This will return you (after 20 seconds) to the TV Home Page.

Turning off the WebTV Plus box

Use the Power key (from the Web world or the TV Home Page)Ā to turn off the
WebTV Plus box. While playing a game, Power will return you to the TV Home
Page.

Playing You Don't Know Jack again

Once you've configured the box and played You Don't Know Jack once, the box
should stay configured. Use the "Games" link off the TV Home Page to start
playing "You Don't Know Jack".

Troubleshooting

   * If the box stops responding, wait a minute to see if it reboots by
     itself. It has a hardware watchdog timer, so it should always restart.
   * Once it restarts, wait 30 seconds, until the disk stops spinning. Then
     press the Web Power button.
   * If you get lost, contact Jack Palevich by phone or e-mail.

Reporting bugs

Report bugs by sending e-mail to palevich@corp.webtv.net. In addition, the
box has the ability to semi-automatically log crashes.

In order to automatically log a game crash, you must connect the the WebTV
Web Home Page. Do this after the crash, but before you play another game.
All you have to do is use the "Web Home" link from the TV Home Page, and log
onto the service. Once you do that, you can return to the TV Home page and
play some more games. The crash log is uploaded automatically when you
connect to the service.

Nightly Downloads

If you leave the WebTV Box plugged in and connected to the phone line, and
you have TV listing downloads enabled, your box will automatically call back
to WebTV each night to see if there are any updates. However, currently this
only works if you have TV Listings enabled. To check if you have TV listings
enabled:

  1. Go to the TV Home Page.
  2. Click on Settings.
  3. Click on Listings setup.
  4. Follow the instructions.
  5. Make sure that Auto retrieve is checked.

If for some reason you can't leave the WebTV Plus box connected to the phone
line, you can manually trigger a nightly download by doing the following:

   * Make sure the box is connected to a phone line.
   * Power off the box.
   * Wait 30 seconds for the disk to stop spinning.
   * Type in the secret code 1111.
   * The box will automatically power on, go through a nightly download
     cycle, and then power off again.

                                     Ā

                  Please perform a manual Nightly
                  Download cycle once a day, so that we
                  can test out game logging, and make
                  sure that you're running the latest
                  version of the game software.

Returning to the Production or Daily Service

You Don't Know Jack testers should stay with the Beta games service. Other
users will probably want to return to either the Regular or the Daily
service. Once you have installed an offline game, you should be able to play
it no matter which service you are connected to. The only requirement is
that you must continue to use some flavor of Client 2.2 approm.

To return to the Production service

  1. Make sure the box is turned off, but still connected to the power.
  2. While the box is turned off, type the following "secret code" on the
     keyboard: 93288
  3. If you did that right, the 3 LEDs will flash briefly. If the LEDs did
     not flash, press the "Option" key, and then try again.
  4. Once you have entered the secret code correctly, turn on the box by
     pressing the "Web Power" button on the keyboard.
  5. Instead of the normal "TV Home" page, you will see a "Connection
     Configuration" page.
       1. Select on the combo-popup menu that says "Daily".
       2. Press Return.
       3. Select the "Production" item.
       4. Press Return.
       5. Select the "Connect" button and press "Return".
  6. Wait for a connection to the Production WebTV service.

To return to the Daily service

  1. Make sure the box is turned off, but still connected to the power.
  2. While the box is turned off, type the following "secret code" on the
     keyboard: 93288
  3. If you did that right, the 3 LEDs will flash briefly. If the LEDs did
     not flash, press the "Option" key, and then try again.
  4. Once you have entered the secret code correctly, turn on the box by
     pressing the "Web Power" button on the keyboard.
  5. Instead of the normal "TV Home" page, you will see a "Connection
     Configuration" page.
       1. You don't have to select a service, since the default is to
          connect to Daily.
       2. Select the "Connect" button and press "Return".
  6. Wait for a connection to the Daily WebTV service.

Revision History

This document has gone through the following revisions:

0.2 - 4/22/98 - Added explanation of how to return to the daily or
production services. Added short-cut for people who already have development
ROMs on their boxes.

0.1 - 4/14/98 - First Version.
